## FreeCAD Website Project – Kickoff Meeting 1

**Date**: Tuesday 05 May 2026

**Time**: 16:00 UTC / 18:00 CEST

**Location**: [Online – BigBlueButton link](https://biggerbluebutton.com/rooms/8dGDD3VXATSrld0V0TBt4Qb67AKpd3An5qXLKwnmwdAi9Edtcm)

**Note-taker**: @marcuspollio

| Name | Role | Attendance | Comment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| @marcuspollio | coordinator | present | |
| @hyarion | maintainer | present | |
| @maxwxyz | triager | present | |
| @Reqrefusion | finances officer | present | |
| @YosypC | | present | |
| @senft-research | | present | |

---

### Meeting Purpose

Initial coordination meeting to bring contributors together, review the current state, and agree on collaboration for next steps.

### Expected Outcomes:

- Shared understanding of project goals and status
- Defined next steps and future meetings

---

### 1. Introductions

1.1 Round of introductions (interests, motivation in the project)
  - @marcuspollio starts the introductions. They outline the circumstances that led to the launch the website improvements initiative, particularly the lack of consistency and the challenges involved in maintaining its various and non-coordinated parts (homepage, blog, developer handbook, wiki, etc). After a phase of prototyping and refinement, the development is now happening in the [official org repository](github.com/FreeCAD/website).
  - @hyarion is a FreeCAD maintainer, member of the Code Quality and Packaging groups.
  - @maxwxyz provides a very, very brief self-introduction, and expresses a willingness to see the new unified website replace the current one very, very soon 😉
  - @YosypC initially used the Link branch fork and most recently has been contributing to documentation and issue reporting.
  - @senft-research is involved in academia, keen on on-boarding and helping document documentation matters.
  - @Reqrefusion joins the meeting later and is thus not present during introductions.

### 2. Current project status

2.1 Overview of work done
  - @marcuspollio explains the goals for the architecture and vision of the new website. First, as many static parts as possible of the website ecosystem are brought under the same roof, in order to have a single point of entry (the freecad.org homepage), a coherent multi-lingual and responsive (i.e. supporting multiple devices) navigation and experience, and lower the number of barriers for contributors (by reducing the number of different platforms). Secondly, the reliance on known workflows by FreeCAD contributors (e.g. git repository, CI/CD) for all content, theme, and assets is more transparent, open, and accessible than today's setup. Thirdly, the choice of a static site generator like Hugo (i.e. instead of a dynamic system with a database) allows for better security, resources efficiency, and scalability.
  - The migration will soon be complete, meaning that the base architecture is in place and that the focus is now on on-boarding, content, testing, documentation, and polishing. The new website is currently deployed to a [testing domain](https://freecad.github.io/Website/) before replacing the current one. The aim is for the new website to be ready for the release of FreeCAD 1.2.
  - The creation of a group of interested people in this sense aims to help coordinate, facilitate contributions, and provide the base of a lasting effort.

2.2 Identification of immediate gaps, blockers, or open questions
  - @senft-research inquires whether the use of another framework (e.g. for the Dev Handbook) is possible. The consensus is this is entirely possible, nevertheless it is probably worth trying the existing framework first, in order to reduce the effort involved in juggling multiple ones (see the initiative’s original goals), and that if the modifications to the existing framework are not suitable, the integration of an alternative solution should be explored. @marcuspollio notes that an assessment of the particular features offered by other options could be helpful to determine whether they would be beneficial for the FreeCAD use case, and if or how they could be implemented.
  - @Reqrefusion notes that the current new website is very boring and would like clarification regarding the vision for this project. They point out that the website should be driven by content, rather than content being added to the structure afterward.

### 3. Collaboration and workflow

3.1  Tools, platforms, communication channels
  - While the [new forum](https://devtalk.freecad.org/) with chat is being set up, the creation of a instant communication channel, initially on Telegram is proposed.
  - The website repository serves as the central place for focused issues, contributions reviews and archival purposes.

### 4. Next steps and future meetings

4.1 Short-term priorities, next milestones, tasks and assignments
  - It is agreed that starting with the [website guidelines and contributions pages](https://freecad.github.io/Website/dev/web/) is a good first step. Everyone is encouraged to get involved, submit some draft notes or schematic design in order to discuss on tangible elements. A first quick review should ideally happen before the next online meeting.

4.2 Meetings schedule and format
  - Monthly online meetings with a preliminary agenda are proposed in order to maintain momentum and help progress on specific issues.


**NOTE:** The complete meeting automatic transcription is available on [Bigger Blue Button](https://biggerbluebutton.com/meeting/summary/09d06b990f1d06f916b8928812aef9948995fee2-1777996110527).

---

### Next meeting

- Tuesday 2nd June 2026, 16:00 UTC (18:00 CEST), [FPA Meeting Room](https://biggerbluebutton.com/rooms/8dGDD3VXATSrld0V0TBt4Qb67AKpd3An5qXLKwnmwdAi9Edtcm)
