## FreeCAD Website Project – Meeting 2

**Date**: Tuesday 02 June 2026

**Time**: 16:00 UTC / 18:00 CEST

**Location**: [Online – BigBlueButton link](https://biggerbluebutton.com/rooms/8dGDD3VXATSrld0V0TBt4Qb67AKpd3An5qXLKwnmwdAi9Edtcm)

**Note-taker**: @marcuspollio

| Name | Role | Attendance | Comment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| @marcuspollio | coordinator | present | |
| @Reqrefusion | finances officer | present | |
| @YosypC | | present | |

---

### Meeting Purpose

Second coordination meeting to bring contributors together, review the current state, and agree on collaboration for next steps.

### Expected Outcomes:

- Review of website on-boarding and contributions guidelines
- Defined next steps

---

### 1. Website on-boarding and contributions guidelines content

1.1 Website documentation review
  - Attendees could not review the [website on-boarding documentation and contributions guidelines](https://freecad.github.io/Website/dev/web/) in time. That is: the introduction, guidelines, structure, markdown syntax, shortcodes, front matter, locales, CMS, and theme pages.
  - @marcuspollio asked attendees to give them a look to base their feedback on.

### 2. Development handbook architecture and features

2.1 Development handbook review
  - Attendess could not review the [development handbook](https://freecad.github.io/Website/dev) in time too. The sub-sections are: welcome, teams, setup, roadmap, design, addon-academy,localization, documentation writing, infrastructure, code, and technical guides.
  - The features included are: Table of Contents, navigation, markdown attributes, shortcodes, languages, and versions.
  - They are asked to give a look for tangible feedback.

### 3. Content Management System demo

3.1 Live demo of the CMS workflow
  - @marcuspollio gives a live demo of CMS used for the FreeCAD website: Sveltia CMS. The two workflow approaches are explained: local and via a git-based platform (currently GitHub). The different login methods are shown. Then, the CMS general panels (collections and assets) are shown, as well as the possibilities to add, edit, and delete content. The content fields, body (Rich Text editor), translations and preview are explained with dummy changes (not committed).

3.2 CMS documentation to be completed
  - @marcuspollio will complete the CMS documentation on the website section of the dev handbook soon, following the aspects shown in the live demo.

### 4. Next steps and future meetings

4.1 Short-term priorities, next milestones
  - In order to have an attractive and almost complete website for the next release (September 2026), community contributions are required. Contributors are welcome to share their ideas, mockups, illustrations, texts, models and more. The biggest priority is designing and completing the homepage. The issue about the Homepage will be expanded to include more actionable items and facilitate coordination. Then, the Features, Download, Community and Donate pages can be improved as well.

---

### Next meeting

- Tuesday 14th July 2026, 16:00 UTC (18:00 CEST), [Jitsi Dev Meeting Room](https://meet.jit.si/FreeCAD-devs-meeting)
