## FreeCAD Website Project – Meeting 3

**Date**: Tuesday 14 July 2026

**Time**: 16:00 UTC / 18:00 CEST

**Location**: [Jitsi Dev Meeting Room](https://meet.jit.si/FreeCAD-devs-meeting)

**Note-taker**: @marcuspollio

| Name | Role | Attendance | Comment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| @marcuspollio | coordinator | present | |
| @Reqrefusion | FPA finances officer | present | |
| @Connor9220 | maintainers & FPA member | present | |
| @YosypC | | present | |
| @Creymore | CAD & Design teams | present | |

---

### Meeting Purpose

Third coordination meeting to bring contributors together, review the current state, and agree on collaboration for next steps.

### Expected Outcomes:

- Dev handbook, website docs, and guidelines review
- Main pages design and content
- Next steps

---

### 1. Current website project status

1.1 Migration and grant work completed
  - @marcuspollio has finished the repository migration for a previous public but personal repository to the official FreeCAD organisation one. The "website improvements - step 1" grant work is now complete.
  - The CMS documentation, login, usage steps and examples are now also live.

1.2 Remaining major work
  - The biggest priority is the content improvements, specially for the Homepage, Features, Download, Community, and Donate pages.
  - In preparation for the next release (26.3 around October 2026), a draft of the "fancy" releases notes will be prepared by @marcuspollio.
  - Multiple improvements to the website structure, modularity, ease of use, style, CMS, and documentation are possible, but not urgent.

### 2. Development handbook content and review

2.1 Development handbook, website documentation, and contributions guidelines content and review
  - Unfortunately, none of attendees could review them. This item is postponed for now.

### 3. Main pages design and content

3.1 Homepage
  - Following the [Homepage issue](https://github.com/FreeCAD/Website/issues/31) discussion, @Creymore clarifies the importance and interest to promote the Lens service (PDM originally developed by Ondsel and now part of the FreeCAD org). They also suggest integrating the Lens service into the website, either as a public instance, or as a way to showcase the parametric capabilities of selected 3D models with a minimal interface and viewport. @Reqrefusion links to a Lens instance by the FPA, yet it is not clear what the goals of the FPA for it are, nor to which extend this instance can be used for the website or the general public. Contacting the people involved (@amrit3701 and @pieterhijma) may help to better understand, decide what to do next, and how and where to promote Lens on the website.
  - @marcuspollio proposed to do a barebone mockup/prototype for the Homepage with a hero illustration and a few buttons on the top, followed by some News cards, and several sections to present the FreeCAD project in general. It is suggested to contact @CRogersMedia for the hero illustration, based on the existing cogwheels idea present on the current website. More detailed features can be illustrated on the Features page. After this prototype is submitted, feedback and iterative improvements on this base can be done.

3.2 Releases notes
  - Short "fancy" releases notes, in addition to the existing complete ones on the wiki, are planned to be added for each new release. These illustrate the main changes in the project and provide download links as well. In preparation for the future 26.3 release, @marcuspollio proposes to do a barebone mockup/prototype 26.3 "fancy" release notes to be improved and refined by other contributors.

3.3 Illustrations and models
  - @marcuspollio proposes to have a curated selection of illustrations, animations, photos, videos, and models to be used for the main website pages, as well as the future 26.3 "fancy" release notes. They will enquire with the FPA and people in the community how to best gather these resources. Help from other contributors to coordinate this effort is very much welcome.
  - Post-meeting note: after enquiry at the Thursday 16th July FPA meeting, a 26.3 release video is desired (possibly by @CRogersMedia) but not confirmed yet.

### 4. Next steps

4.1 Short-term priorities, next milestones
  - Homepage design, content, and improvements by contributors, following base to be submitted by @marcuspollio.
  - 26.3 "fancy" release notes design, content, and improvements by contributors, following base to be submitted by @marcuspollio.
  - Download page improvements by @marcuspollio following [feedback and ideas by @mnesarco](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Homepage/issues/348) with better automatic releases data workflow and additional QoL features.
  - Staging environment for broader community testing of the website, before full public launch, to be coordinated by @marcuspollio with @chennes.

4.2 Medium-term priorities
  - Donations page design, content, workflow, and CRM integration to be investigated by @Reqrefusion and @sliptonic.
  - Features page improvements by contributors.
  - Community page improvements by contributors.
  - Development handbook, website documentation, and contributions guidelines improvements by contributors.
  - Lens promotion and integration, to be investigated by contributors.

---

### Next meeting

- Tuesday 4th August 2026, 16:00 UTC (18:00 CEST), [Jitsi Dev Meeting Room](https://meet.jit.si/FreeCAD-devs-meeting)
